This code was developed as part of a honors, undergraduate thesis for the University of Chicago Astrophysics Department.

This is an addition to the DeepMerge II neural network developed by the Deep Skies lab. The original network (found here https://github.com/AleksCipri/DeepMergeDomainAdaptation) was designed to identify galaxy mergers. This modification allowed the network to train on a new type of data and predict galaxy statistics instead. The Github branch that this code was pushed to is unfortunately still private which is preventing me from showing my full work. However, the complete rewrite of this file represents the majority of the modifications made.

Abstract:
Predicting the star formation rates and stellar mass of large samples of galaxies from future large-scale surveys will be crucial for furthering our understanding of galaxy evolution and the formation of matter in the universe. Using machine learning models trained on simulated images of galaxies and then applying them to newly observed data will help tremendously with these efforts. Unfortunately, training a neural network on a source domain and applying it to a different target domain often results in a detrimental loss in accuracy. In this project, I applied Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) in order to demonstrate its potential to enforce the learning of invariant features across domains for better classification. I demonstrated the use of these techniques by predicting the star formation rates and stellar mass of Illustris-TNG100 simulated data that had been modified to mimic LSST observational data with two different levels of noise. The application of these techniques increased the accuracy of domain classification in the target, high noise domain resulting in a mean squared error loss of .0488. This demonstrates the potential of this techniques to improve the accuracy of neural network models trained on simulation data and generalized to different, noisier data sets and to detect astrophysical objects in current and future large-scale astronomical surveys.
